1 what is git ?

git is a free and open source distributed version control system.

git has a branching feature which allows us to work on the different version of the same project.
git has a log file in which we can review our work.
reset and revert provide the functionality of undo in our project.
since it is distributed system so we have multiple backups.
in case of failure of a remote repository we have backups on local remote repository and vice versa.
stashing is a feature in which we can store the current state of our project.
pull a feature in git by we can fetch our code from remote repository to local 
repository and we can change the code of remote repository by pushing on the remote repository from local repository.


2  what is merging?

merging allow us to integrate changes of two different branches into 1 branch.
for example, we have branch A and branch B and we want to merge
branch B in branch A;

git cheackout branch  A
git merge branch B

here branch A will get all file of B and total file = (files of A and files of B)
but branch B will remain unchanged.  

3. what is rebase?
rebase is just like merge but the difference is merged combine two branches into one branch and it keeps two-pointer of two branches
and rebase make it linear and keep only one pointer.
(sir I didn't get practically).

4. what is stash?

git stash command saves both staged and unstaged files them away for later use.
stash temporary clean your working tree.
whenever we want to reapply those staged and unstaged changes we can pop our stash.
by default, stash take only staged  files so when we want to include non -staged files
command
git stash -u 

for ignored files
git stash -a

when we want to pop all stash file
git stash pop

we can manually  pop stash by index 
git stash pop@{index}

we can create a branch as well using  stash pop
git stash branch <branch name> stash@{stash index}

we can drop entire stash as well as an index of stash 

git stash drop stash@{stash index}
git stash clear

5 what is commit?

commit command add all staged file in local repository  

command
git commit -m "message of that commit" 

you can also undo your last commit by 
git reset --soft HEAD^

if you wanted to add 5 files in your last commit but you did only 5 and you want to add staged file in the last commit

git commit --ammend -m "your message "
 
6. what is pull and pull rebase?
pull is a name of two consecutive operation fetch and merge 

git pull origin <branch name> 
by default pull fetch changes from given branch and then perform merge operation.

pull rebase firstly perform fetch operation and then instead of merge it performs rebase operation

(both merge and rebase operation has explained earlier).


